Blog post about Introducing Kueue (#36425)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/Introducing-Kueue.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kueue"
date: 
slug:
---

**Authors:** Abdullah Gharaibeh (Google), Aldo Culquicondor (Google)

> For batch workloads, it does not make sense to focus only on pods. The partial execution of pods from multiple parallel batch jobs may 

Reviewer: This feels a bit too sudden.

I think we could move this paragraph somewhere in the "why a new controller section" and add a paragraph here along these lines:

```markdown
Whether on prem or in the cloud, clusters have limited resources.
Organizations that run HPC, AI/ML and other batch
jobs want to maximize the utilization of these resources.
They would like to do so by over committing their kubernetes
clusters with jobs, hoping that kubernetes would start them in
an ordered and fair manner.
```

  differentiated by the label `instance-type = {spot | ondemand}`. Moreover, since not all jobs can tolerate running on spot nodes, the nodes 
  are tainted with spot=true:NoSchedule.
- To strike a balance between cost and resource availability, we want jobs to use up to 1000 cores of on-demand nodes, then use up to 2000 cores 
  of spot nodes.

As batch admins, we define two ResourceFlavors that represent the two types of nodes

```yaml
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: ondemand
  labels:
    instance-type: ondemand 
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: spot
  labels:
    instance-type: spot
taints:
- effect: NoSchedule
  key: spot
  value: "true"
```

Then we define the quotas by creating a ClusterQueue as follows
```yaml
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: research-pool
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - name: "cpu"
    flavors:
    - name: ondemand
      quota:
        min: 1000
    - name: spot
      quota:
        min: 2000
```

> Note that the order of flavors matters, Kueue will attempt to fit jobs in the available quotas according to the order unless the job has an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the order of flavors in the ClusterQueue resources matters: Kueue will attempt to fit jobs in the available quotas according to the order, unless the job has an
```

(not sure about the comma)

apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  name: training
  namespace: team-ml
spec:
  clusterQueue: research-pool
```

Admins create the above setup once. As batch users, we are able to find the queues we are allowed to submit to by listing the `LocalQueues` 
in our namespace. The command is similar to the following: `kubectl get -n my-namespace localqueues`

To submit a job, we simply set the `kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name` annotation as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: sample-job-
  annotations:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: main
spec:
  parallelism: 3
  completions: 3
  template:
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: spot
        operator: "Exists"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
      containers:
      - name: dummy-job
        image: gcr.io/k8s-staging-perf-tests/sleep:latest
        args: ["30s"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 1
      restartPolicy: Never
```

Kueue operates by forcing the job to be created in suspended mode. Once the job is at the head of the ClusterQueue, Kueue evaluates if it can start
by checking if the resources requested by the job fit the available quota. 

> In the above example, the job tolerates Spot resources, and so if there are previously admitted jobs consuming all existing on-demand quota but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the job tolerates Spot resources. If there are previously admitted jobs consuming all existing on-demand quota but
```

> not all of Spot’s, Kueue admits the job using the Spot quota. Kueue does this by issuing a single update to the job object that: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not all of Spot’s, Kueue admits the job using the Spot quota. Kueue does this by issuing a single update to the Job object that: 
```

> - Changes the suspended flag to false 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changes the `suspend` field to false 
```

> - Adds the nodeSelector term instance-type: spot to the pod template so that when the pods are created by the job controller, they can only schedule 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adds the nodeSelector term `instance-type: spot` to the pod template so that when the pods are created by the job controller, they can only schedule 
```

  on Spot nodes. 

> Finally, if the nodes are not actually provisioned yet, then kube-scheduler will initially mark the pods as unschedulable, which will trigger the 

Reviewer: Let's mention the two scenarios: if there are empty nodes already, kube-scheduler would directly schedule the pods respecting the node selectors.

cluster-autoscaler to provision the nodes.

## Future work and getting involved
The example above offers a glimpse of some of Kueue’s features including support for quota, resource flexibility and integration with cluster 
autoscaler. Kueue also supports fair-sharing, job priorities and different queueing strategies. Take a look at 
[Kueue documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/docs) to learn more about those features and how to use Kueue. 

We have a number of features that we plan to add to Kueue, such as hierarchical quota, budgets, and support for dynamically sized jobs. In 
the more immediate future, we are focused on adding support for job preemption.

[The latest Kueue release is available on Github](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/releases), try it out if you run batch workloads. 

> We are in the early stages of this project and we are seeking feedback of all levels, major or minor, so please don’t hesitate to reach out. We’re 

Reviewer: Let's give a shout out to our contributors :)

Author: good call, added.

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kueue"
date: 
slug:
---

**Authors:** Abdullah Gharaibeh (Google), Aldo Culquicondor (Google)

> Whether on-prem or in the cloud with auto scaling capabilities, the reality is that clusters have finite capacity: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether on-premises or in the cloud with autoscaling capabilities, the reality is that clusters have finite capacity:
```

constraints on resource usage exist for quota and cost management and so users will want an easy way to fairly and 
efficiently share resources. 

> In this blog we introduce Kueue, an open source job queueing controller designed to manage batch jobs as a single unit, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article we introduce [Kueue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/docs#readme),
an open source job queueing controller designed to manage batch jobs as a single unit,
```

> while leaving pod-level orchestration to existing stable components of Kubernetes. Kueue natively supports the Kubernetes `v1.Job`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while leaving pod-level orchestration to existing stable components of Kubernetes.
Kueue natively supports the Kubernetes [Job](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/)
```

  lifecycle management. 
- When key features are missing, we add them to existing components. For example, we invested in the Job API to cover more use cases like 
  [IndexedJob](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/19/introducing-indexed-jobs) and [fixed long standing issues related to pod 
  tracking](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#job-tracking-with-finalizers). While this path takes longer to 
  land features, we believe it is the more sustainable long term solution.
- Ensuring compatibility with cloud environments where compute resources are elastic and heterogeneous.

For this approach to be feasible, Kueue needs knobs to influence the behavior of those established components so it can effectively manage 
when and where to start a job. We added those knobs to the `v1.Job` API in the form of two features:
- [Suspend field](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#suspending-a-job), which allows Kueue to signal to the job-controller 
  when to start or stop a job.
- [Mutable scheduling directives](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#mutable-scheduling-directives), which allows Kueue to 

>   update a job’s nodeSelector before starting it. This way, Kueue can control pod placement while still delegating to kube-scheduler the actual 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  update a Job’s `nodeSelector` before starting the job. This way, Kueue can control pod placement while still delegating to kube-scheduler the actual
```

  pod-to-node scheduling.

Note that any custom job API can be managed by Kueue if they offer the above two capabilities.

> ### The Resource Model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Resource model
```

Kueue defines new APIs to address the requirements mentioned at the beginning of this post. The three main APIs are:

- `ResourceFlavor`: a cluster-scoped API to define resource flavor available for consumption, like a GPU model. At its core, a ResourceFlavor is 
  a set of labels that mirrors the labels on the nodes that offer those resources.
- `ClusterQueue`: a cluster-scoped API to define resource pools by setting quotas for one or more resourceFlavor. 
- `LocalQueue`: a namespaced API for grouping and managing single tenant jobs. In its simplest form, a LocalQueue is a pointer to the ClusterQueue 
  that the tenant (modeled as a namespace) can use to start their jobs.

For more details, take a look at the [API concepts documentation](https://sigs.k8s.io/kueue/docs/concepts). While the three APIs may look overwhelming, 
most of Kueue’s operations are centered around ClusterQueue; the ResourceFlavor and LocalQueue APIs are mainly organizational wrappers.

> ### Example Use Case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example use case
```

Imagine the following setup for running batch workloads on a Kubernetes cluster on the cloud: 

> - We have two types of autoscaled node groups that differ on their provisioning policies: spot and on-demand. The nodes of each group are 
>   differentiated by the label `instance-type = {spot | ondemand}`. Moreover, since not all jobs can tolerate running on spot nodes, the nodes 
>   are tainted with spot=true:NoSchedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There are two types of autoscaled node groups that differ on their provisioning policies: spot and on-demand. The nodes of each group are 
  differentiated by the label `"instance-type"="spot"` or `"instance-type"="ondemand"`.
  Moreover, since not all jobs can tolerate running on spot nodes, the nodes are tainted with `"spot"="true:NoSchedule"`.
```

I'm not sure whether to represent the taints and labels as they'd appear in YAML (with a `:`) or JSON (quoted, also with a `:`, or something else. I hope the approach here makes sense to readers.

> - To strike a balance between cost and resource availability, we want jobs to use up to 1000 cores of on-demand nodes, then use up to 2000 cores 

Author: I would avoid using "service" here since we are not discussing services at all, this is more about the VM itself.

  of spot nodes.

> As batch admins, we define two ResourceFlavors that represent the two types of nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an admin for the batch system, you define two ResourceFlavors that represent the two types of nodes:
```

```yaml

> apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
```

IMO this helps readers see that there are two different objects being defined.

kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: ondemand
  labels:
    instance-type: ondemand 
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: spot
  labels:
    instance-type: spot
taints:
- effect: NoSchedule
  key: spot
  value: "true"
```

> Then we define the quotas by creating a ClusterQueue as follows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you define the quotas by creating a ClusterQueue as follows:
```

```yaml

> apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
```

kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: research-pool
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - name: "cpu"
    flavors:
    - name: ondemand
      quota:
        min: 1000
    - name: spot
      quota:
        min: 2000
```

Note that the order of flavors in the ClusterQueue resources matters: Kueue will attempt to fit jobs in the available quotas according to 
the order unless the job has an explicit affinity to specific flavors. 

> For each namespace, we define a LocalQueue that points to the ClusterQueue above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each namespace, you define a LocalQueue that points to the ClusterQueue above:
```

```yaml

> apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
```

kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  name: training
  namespace: team-ml
spec:
  clusterQueue: research-pool
```

> Admins create the above setup once. As batch users, we are able to find the queues we are allowed to submit to by listing the `LocalQueues` 
> in our namespace. The command is similar to the following: `kubectl get -n my-namespace localqueues`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Admins create the above setup once. Batch users are able to find the queues we are allowed to
submit to by listing the `LocalQueues` in their namespace(s). The command is similar to the following: `kubectl get -n my-namespace localqueues`
```

> To submit a job, we simply set the `kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name` annotation as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To submit work, create a Job and set the `kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name` annotation as follows:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: sample-job-
  annotations:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: main
spec:
  parallelism: 3
  completions: 3
  template:
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: spot
        operator: "Exists"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
      containers:

>       - name: dummy-job
>         image: gcr.io/k8s-staging-perf-tests/sleep:latest

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
      - name: example-batch-workload
        image: registry.example/batch/calculate-pi:3.14
```
?

        args: ["30s"]
        resources:
          requests:

>             cpu: 1

Reviewer 2: What's our view on setting a resource limit for CPU? I'm mindful that some workloads will impact other things running on the node if not otherwise inhibited.

Author: Setting limits is a good practice in general, especially for memory, but it is not quite relevant here, so I left it out.

      restartPolicy: Never
```

> Kueue operates by forcing the job to be created in suspended mode. Once the job is at the head of the ClusterQueue, Kueue evaluates if it can start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kueue uses [admission control](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/) to ensure that
the Job is created in suspended mode. Once the job is at the head of the ClusterQueue, Kueue evaluates if
that work can start,
```

Author: We use a webhook and some reconciliation logic to enforce that, not really the builtin admission controllers

Author: Actually currently it is enforced by the job controller within Kueue not a webhook, we may add a webhook to do that on object creation in the future. I don't think this detail is important for the blog though.

Reviewer 2: I didn't like the sentence “Kueue operates by forcing the job to be created in suspended mode” because it's not clear if the reader or the control plane is responsible for that enforcement.

Try to reword to make that detail clear.

Reviewer 2: Is there a mechanism to stop the built-in job controller from acting on that Job?

Author: How about "Kueue ensures that the job is in suspended mode" without specifying how for now?

> Is there a mechanism to stop the built-in job controller from acting on that Job?

Currently the suspend flag is set to false when kueue's job controller first observes the job; so the built-in job controller could have started to create the pods if it observed the job first, but all that will be reversed when kueue gets the create event. This is not ideal, but we will add a webhook in the next release so that the job is created with suspend=true.

Reviewer 2: OK, that works. I'd assumed the webhook implementation already existed, but no worries.

Even better would be to say something like:
“_Kueue intervenes to suspend the job as soon as it is created_” - which is more strictly true now and will stay true with the webhook implementation. That way, we're not risking a situation where someone seeing a bug assumes a feature that's not yet delivered. Readers might infer that Kueue _today_ configures a validating or mutating admission mechanism that doesn't actually exist.

Author: sounds good, done.

by checking if the resources requested by the job fit the available quota. 

> In the above example, the job tolerates Spot resources. If there are previously admitted jobs consuming all existing on-demand quota but
> not all of Spot’s, Kueue admits the job using the Spot quota. Kueue does this by issuing a single update to the `Job` object that: 
> - Changes the `suspend` flag to false 
> - Adds the nodeSelector term `instance-type: spot` to the pod template so that when the pods are created by the job controller, they can only schedule 
>   on Spot nodes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example, the job tolerates spot resources. If there are previously admitted jobs consuming all existing on-demand quota but
not all of spot’s, Kueue admits the job using the spot quota. Kueue does this by issuing a single update to the `Job` object that: 
- Changes the `suspend` flag to false 
- Adds the `nodeSelector` term `instance-type: spot` to the pod template, so that when the pods are created by the job controller, those pods can only schedule 
  onto spot nodes. 
```

Finally, if there are available empty nodes with matching node selector terms, then kube-scheduler will directly schedule the pods. If not, then

> kube-scheduler will initially mark the pods as unschedulable, which will trigger the cluster-autoscaler to provision new nodes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention cluster autoscaling before this point. People might not have heard of it.

Author: Added to the description of the use case at the beginning of the section.

## Future work and getting involved
The example above offers a glimpse of some of Kueue’s features including support for quota, resource flexibility and integration with cluster 

> autoscaler. Kueue also supports fair-sharing, job priorities and different queueing strategies. Take a look at 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
autoscaler. Kueue also supports fair-sharing, job priorities and different queueing strategies. Take a look at the
```

[Kueue documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/docs) to learn more about those features and how to use Kueue. 

We have a number of features that we plan to add to Kueue, such as hierarchical quota, budgets, and support for dynamically sized jobs. In 
the more immediate future, we are focused on adding support for job preemption.

> [The latest Kueue release is available on Github](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/releases), try it out if you run batch workloads. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The latest [Kueue release](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/releases) is available on Github;
try it out if you run batch workloads on Kubernetes.
```

## What problem does Kueue solve?
Job queueing is a key need for running batch workloads at scale in both on-prem and cloud environments. The central aspect of job queueing is
managing access to a limited pool of resources shared by multiple tenants by deciding which jobs should wait and which can start now, and what 
resources they can use.

Some of the most desired job queueing requirements include:
- Quota and budgeting to control who can use what and up to what limit. This is not only needed in clusters with static resources like on-prem, 
  but it is also needed in cloud environments to control spend or usage of scarce resources.
- Fair sharing of resources between tenants. To maximize the usage of available resources, any unused quota assigned to inactive tenants should be 
  allowed to be shared fairly between active tenants.
- Flexible placement of jobs across different resource types based on availability. This is important in cloud environments which have heterogeneous 
  resources such as different architectures (GPU or CPU models) and different provisioning modes (spot vs on-demand).
- Support for autoscaled environments where resources can be provisioned on demand.

> ## Why a new controller? 

Author: done.

current ResourceQuota model is not a good fit for these needs because quotas are enforced on resource creation, and there is no queueing of requests. The 
intent of ResourceQuotas is to provide a builtin reliability mechanism with policies needed by admins to protect clusters from failing over.

In the Kubernetes ecosystem, there are several solutions for job scheduling. However, we found that these alternatives have one or more of the following problems:
- They replace existing stable components of Kubernetes, like kube-scheduler or the job controller. This is problematic not only from an operational point of view, but 
  also the duplication in the job APIs causes fragmentation of the ecosystem and reduces portability.
- They don’t integrate with autoscaling, or 
- They lack support for resource flexibility. 

## Kueue overview {#overview}
With Kueue we decided to take a different approach to job queueing on Kubernetes that is anchored around the following aspects: 
- Not duplicating existing functionalities already offered by established Kubernetes components for pod scheduling, autoscaling and job
  lifecycle management. 

> - When key features are missing, we add them to existing components. For example, we invested in the Job API to cover more use cases like 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Adding key features that are missing to existing components. For example, we invested in the Job API to cover more use cases like 
```

---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: ondemand
  labels:
    instance-type: ondemand 
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceFlavor
metadata:
  name: spot
  labels:
    instance-type: spot
taints:
- effect: NoSchedule
  key: spot
  value: "true"
```

Then you define the quotas by creating a ClusterQueue as follows:
```yaml
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterQueue
metadata:
  name: research-pool
spec:
  namespaceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - name: "cpu"
    flavors:
    - name: ondemand
      quota:
        min: 1000
    - name: spot
      quota:
        min: 2000
```

Note that the order of flavors in the ClusterQueue resources matters: Kueue will attempt to fit jobs in the available quotas according to 
the order unless the job has an explicit affinity to specific flavors. 

For each namespace, you define a LocalQueue that points to the ClusterQueue above:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kueue.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: LocalQueue
metadata:
  name: training
  namespace: team-ml
spec:
  clusterQueue: research-pool
```

Admins create the above setup once. Batch users are able to find the queues we are allowed to

> submit to by listing the LocalQueues in their namespace(s). The command is similar to the following: `kubectl get -n my-namespace localqueues`

Reviewer 3: In this paragraph, "we are" sounds vague, because it's not clear who "we" refers to.
Would it be better to say 
"Batch users are able to find the queues that Kueue is allowed to

Author: it should be "they are allowed to"

        args: ["30s"]
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 1
      restartPolicy: Never
```

Kueue intervenes to suspend the job as soon as it is created. Once the job is at the head of the ClusterQueue, Kueue evaluates if it can start
by checking if the resources requested by the job fit the available quota. 

In the above example, the job tolerates spot resources. If there are previously admitted jobs consuming all existing on-demand quota but
not all of spot’s, Kueue admits the job using the spot quota. Kueue does this by issuing a single update to the Job object that: 
- Changes the `.spec.suspend` flag to false 
- Adds the term `instance-type: spot` to the job's `.spec.template.spec.nodeSelector` so that when the pods are created by the job controller, those pods can only schedule 
  onto spot nodes. 

Finally, if there are available empty nodes with matching node selector terms, then kube-scheduler will directly schedule the pods. If not, then
kube-scheduler will initially mark the pods as unschedulable, which will trigger the cluster-autoscaler to provision new nodes.

## Future work and getting involved

> The example above offers a glimpse of some of Kueue’s features including support for quota, resource flexibility and integration with cluster 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example above offers a glimpse of some of Kueue’s features including support for quota, resource flexibility, and integration with cluster 
```

> autoscaler. Kueue also supports fair-sharing, job priorities and different queueing strategies. Take a look at the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
autoscaler. Kueue also supports fair-sharing, job priorities, and different queueing strategies. Take a look at the
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kueue"
date: 
slug:
---

**Authors:** Abdullah Gharaibeh (Google), Aldo Culquicondor (Google)

Whether on-premises or in the cloud with autoscaling capabilities, the reality is that clusters have finite capacity:

> constraints on resource usage exist for quota and cost management and so users will want an easy way to fairly and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constraints on resource usage exist for quota and cost management reasons. As a result, users want an easy way to fairly and 
```

efficiently share resources. 

> In this article we introduce [Kueue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/docs#readme),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, we introduce [Kueue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/tree/main/docs#readme),
```

an open source job queueing controller designed to manage batch jobs as a single unit,
while leaving pod-level orchestration to existing stable components of Kubernetes.
Kueue natively supports the Kubernetes [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/)
API and offers hooks for integrating other custom built APIs for batch jobs.

## What problem does Kueue solve?
Job queueing is a key need for running batch workloads at scale in both on-prem and cloud environments. The central aspect of job queueing is

> managing access to a limited pool of resources shared by multiple tenants by deciding which jobs should wait and which can start now and what 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
managing access to a limited pool of resources shared by multiple tenants by deciding which jobs should wait and which can start now, and what 
```

resources they can use.

Some of the most desired job queueing requirements include:
- Quota and budgeting to control who can use what and up to what limit. This is not only needed in clusters with static resources like on-prem, 
  but it is also needed in cloud environments to control spend or usage of scarce resources.
- Fair sharing of resources between tenants. To maximize the usage of available resources, any unused quota assigned to inactive tenants should be 
  allowed to be shared fairly between active tenants.
- Flexible placement of jobs across different resource types based on availability. This is important in cloud environments which have heterogeneous 
  resources such as different architectures (GPU or CPU models) and different provisioning modes (spot vs on-demand).
- Support for autoscaled environments where resources can be provisioned on demand.

## Why a new controller? 

> Plain Kubernetes doesn’t address the above requirements. In normal circumstances, once a Job is created, the job-controller instantly creates the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plain Kubernetes doesn't address the above requirements. In normal circumstances, once a Job is created, the job-controller instantly creates the 
```

pods and kube-scheduler continuously attempts to assign the pods to nodes. At scale, this situation can work the control plane to death. There is 
also currently no good way to control at the job level which jobs should get which resources first, and no way to express order or fair sharing. The 

> current ResourceQuota model is not a good fit for our needs as quotas are enforced on resource creation, and so there is no queueing of requests. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current ResourceQuota model is not a good fit for these needs because quotas are enforced on resource creation, and there is no queueing of requests. The 
```

intent of ResourceQuotas is to provide a builtin reliability mechanism with policies needed by admins to protect clusters from failing over.

> In the Kubernetes ecosystem, there are several solutions for job scheduling; we found that these alternatives have one or more of the following problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Kubernetes ecosystem, there are several solutions for job scheduling. However, we found that these alternatives have one or more of the following problems:
```

> - They replace existing stable components of Kubernetes, like kube-scheduler. This is problematic not only from an operational point of view, but 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- They replace existing stable components of Kubernetes, like kube-scheduler or the job controller. This is problematic not only from an operational point of view, but 
```

>   also the duplication in the job APIs causes fragmentation of the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  also the duplication in the job APIs causes fragmentation of the ecosystem and reduces portability.
```

  lifecycle management. 
- When key features are missing, we add them to existing components. For example, we invested in the Job API to cover more use cases like 
  [IndexedJob](/blog/2021/04/19/introducing-indexed-jobs) and [fixed long standing issues related to pod 
  tracking](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#job-tracking-with-finalizers). While this path takes longer to 
  land features, we believe it is the more sustainable long term solution.
- Ensuring compatibility with cloud environments where compute resources are elastic and heterogeneous.

For this approach to be feasible, Kueue needs knobs to influence the behavior of those established components so it can effectively manage 
when and where to start a job. We added those knobs to the 'Job' API in the form of two features:
- [Suspend field](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#suspending-a-job), which allows Kueue to signal to the job controller 
  when to start or stop a job.
- [Mutable scheduling directives](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#mutable-scheduling-directives), which allows Kueue to 

> - ```

Reviewer: this line looks unintended.

Reviewer: still unresolved

Author: resolved

>   update a Job’s 'nodeSelector' before starting the job. This way, Kueue can control pod placement while still delegating to kube-scheduler the actual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  update a Job's `.spec.template.spec.nodeSelector` before starting the Job. This way, Kueue can control Pod placement while still delegating to kube-scheduler the actual
```

  pod-to-node scheduling.

Note that any custom job API can be managed by Kueue if that API offers the above two capabilities.

### Resource model
Kueue defines new APIs to address the requirements mentioned at the beginning of this post. The three main APIs are:

> - 'ResourceFlavor': a cluster-scoped API to define resource flavor available for consumption, like a GPU model. At its core, a ResourceFlavor is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ResourceFlavor: a cluster-scoped API to define resource flavor available for consumption, like a GPU model. At its core, a ResourceFlavor is 
```

We generally don't use ticks for resource objects.

Author: removed here and other places.
